

This program displays and saves GDP per capita data for different countries and the data against the size of the countries.
First the user chooses between showing the GDP per capita for a specific year or the growth on a longer period. 
Next the data is chosen to be PPP (Purchasing power parity) or normal.
Then either the data is compared against the area or the population of a country. The data is saved as a csv file.

If the user chose to look at growth data, the program now plots the growth data against the size of countries.
If the user chose to look at the GDP for a specific year, he now chooses the year and the scaling of the plots 
(Either linear scale on y and logarithmic scale on x, or logarithmic scale on both). Lastly the program plots the data.

I have imported worldwide gdp, population and areal data.
The data is from the world bank: ("https://data.worldbank.org")

Comparing the GDP per capita against population and area, we could get a hint of what the most economically effective country size is.
After having run the program and looked at the plots:

It seems like smaller countries are a little better at creating welfare, in terms of GDP per capita.
This could be our hypothesis for future research, but we would need to look more at the fundamentals of the data and what factors are at play.
Bigger countries seem to have had higher growth during the last 30 years. If we do believe that bigger countries are poorer, a higher growth could make sense.
Maybe open trade is starting to flat out wealth/income distributions. Money is flowing from richer countries to cheaper countries.

The main file is responsible for running the program. DataHandler contains classes that make calculations, combine dataFrames,
and save the dataFrames into csv files. The errorCheck file contains a class for error handling. 
The class contains a function which can check if the inputted years are valid. Later we could add more functions.
The plotting file contains the tools for plotting the data. One class plots GDP per capita data and another plots GDP per capita growth.
The paths file includes all data file paths.

Some of the classes I created could be seen as unnecessary.
However, they were created extendability in mind to give developers the possibility to easily extend the project.

